Batch vote import in dispute-distribution (#5894)
paritytech/polkadot: roadmap/implementers-guide/src/node/disputes/dispute-distribution.md

2. An honest validator needs to fully recover availability and validate the
  candidate for casting a vote.

With these two observations, we can conclude that honest validators will usually
not send messages at a high rate. We can therefore enforce conservative rate
limits and thus minimize harm spamming malicious nodes can have.

Before we dive into how rate limiting solves all spam issues elegantly, let's
further discuss that honest behaviour further:

What about session changes? Here we might have to inform a new validator set of
lots of already existing disputes at once.

With observation 1) and a rate limit that is per peer, we are still good:

Let's assume a rate limit of one message per 200ms per sender. This means 5
messages from each validator per second. 5 messages means 5 disputes!
Conclusively, we will be able to conclude 5 disputes per second - no matter what
malicious actors are doing. This is assuming dispute messages are sent ordered,
but even if not perfectly ordered: On average it will be 5 disputes per second.

This is good enough! All those disputes are valid ones and will result in
slashing. Let's assume all of them conclude `valid`, and we slash 1% on those.

> This will still mean that nodes get slashed 100% in just 20 seconds.

Reviewer: As mentioned in the chat, this is not how slashes are applied: https://github.com/paritytech/substrate/blob/22b678f7284537b28c0983d6301faea3c607278c/frame/staking/src/slashing.rs#L255-L261. It would still be 1%. However, we can implement exponential slashing or https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot/issues/5898#issuecomment-1221188631. I'm hesitant to implement slashing for valid disputes up to 100% though, because it practice, if a validator is slow it will dispute several candidates, not just one. I think something like 5-10% as an upper bound plus disabling makes more sense in case of repeated disputes against valid candidates.

Reviewer: By disabling I mean ignoring dispute votes for X sessions (both off-chain and on-chain), kicking out of validator set on the next session (modulo https://github.com/paritytech/substrate/issues/5543) and ignoring blocks produced by them.

Author: Yes from the perspective of dispute-distribution and dispute-coordinator: Disabling is more important than slashing. I'll adjust the guide accordingly.

a slash, when it comes to dispute-distribution. In this section we will explain
how in greater detail.

The idea is to open a queue with limited size for each peer. We will process
incoming messages as fast as we can by doing the following:

1. Check that the sending peer is actually a valid authority - otherwise drop
   message and decrease reputation/disconnect.
2. Put message on the peer's queue, if queue is full - drop it.

Every `RATE_LIMIT` seconds (or rather milliseconds), we pause processing
incoming requests to go a full circle and process one message from each queue.
Processing means `Batching` as explained in the next section.

### Batching

To achieve goal 2 we will batch incoming votes/messages together before passing
them on as a single batch to the `dispute-coordinator`. To adhere to goal 1 as
well, we will do the following:

1. For an incoming message, we check whether we have an existing batch for that
   candidate, if not we import directly to the dispute-coordinator, as we have
   to assume this is concerning a new dispute.
2. We open a batch and start collecting incoming messages for that candidate,
   instead of immediately forwarding.

> 4. We keep collecting votes in the batch until we received less than

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. We keep collecting votes in the batch until we receive
```

   `MIN_KEEP_BATCH_ALIVE_VOTES` unique votes in the last `BATCH_COLLECTING_INTERVAL`. This is
   important to accommodate for goal 5 and also 3.
5. We send the whole batch to the dispute-coordinator.

This together with rate limiting explained above ensures we will be able to
process valid disputes: We can limit the number of simultaneous existing batches
to some high value, but can be rather certain that this limit will never be
reached - hence we won't drop valid disputes:

Let's assume `MIN_KEEP_BATCH_ALIVE_VOTES` is 10, `BATCH_COLLECTING_INTERVAL`
is `500ms` and above `RATE_LIMIT` is `100ms`. 1/3 of validators are malicious,
so for 1000 this means around 330 malicious actors worst case.

All those actors can send a message every `100ms`, that is 10 per second. This

> means at the begin of an attack they can open up around 3300 batches. Each

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
means at the begining of an attack they can open up around 3300 batches. Each
```
